Essex's stereotyped as the county of
flash Harry's and fast cars it gets a
terrible press Essex is the butt of a
hundred jokes
it's dismissed as the home of light
entertainment and heavy industry my
journey into the wilds of Essex starts
here on the North Shore of the Upper
Thames
this is Essex is bad land just the other
side of this sea wall is Tilbury
coal-fired power station and next to
that there's some sewage works and this
whole area of the Upper Thames that used
to be marshes has taken pretty much the
worst at London can throw at it
in terms of Industry there's been
asbestos here explosives the
petrochemical industry obviously up at
Curtin with the oil refineries there
this is in many senses a toxic place
amazingly up on the power station
there's a peregrine falcon hunting over
that area this to me is extraordinary
and it's Essex in a microcosm really the
angelic and the toxic clothes up against
one another the Falcon and the power
station
it's not really where you expect to find
nature but of course nature is here it's
there in the cracks and the crannies
it's taking advantage being
opportunistic the weeds thrive here the
scavengers
girls there's another curious thing
about this place that struck me as I've
walked it and that's how closely the
Industrial and the natural come to
resemble one another as these odd
exchanges this seawall has been marked
and decorated by graffiti artists
they've tagged it but nature's tagged it
too with lichens bright orange spray can
orange lichens
the razor wire that defends the power
station and the sewage works finds its
rhyme in the briars and the brambles
that coil sharply just behind it this is
essex mashed up mixed up the human and
the natural
there's nothing easy here it's hard it
makes you think hard it requires effort
of you to become involved in it and that
makes it a very interesting very
complicated place to be
you